[Music]
fifteen ways to survive a tough day if
you feel sleepy let's admit it the best
way to stay energetic is to sleep well
but sometimes you just don't have enough
time to rest when you're walking into
the office and struggling to keep your
eyes open knowing the cause of your
sleepiness won't help you as much as
knowing a few good tricks to kick start
your day here are the simplest and most
efficient methods to help you fight off
sleepiness and stay energized throughout
the day you'll find the most unusual
ways at the end of the video number 15
don't drink too many coffees or energy
drinks okay this may sound a bit
illogical the name energy drinks wasn't
just plucked out of thin air as for
coffee everybody knows that you
shouldn't drink it before going to bed
because you can have problems with sleep
right not exactly it's true that both
energy drinks and coffee may give you an
energy boost for a short period of time
but after that initial boost you'll lose
the rest of your energy for several
reasons first of all energy drinks are
full of refined sugar which causes
tiredness and low energy levels can you
believe that some energy drinks contain
as much as thirteen and a half teaspoons
of sugar in a bottle as for coffee
if you drink it regularly your body gets
used to it as a result instead of
feeling energized you are exhausted
one more drawback of these drinks is
that it will be much harder for you to
fully recover the next morning number
fourteen take a contrast shower if you
feel that you can't sit up straight
anymore take a hot and cold contrast
shower you might say huh easy to say but
hard to do I'm trying not to fall asleep
in the office not at home well in this
case go to the bathroom and splash your
face with some ice-cold water this will
give you a jolt which will wake you up
quickly and take you out of your sleepy
state the reason behind this is that
your body has specific physiological
responses to different kinds of
irritants wakefulness is a reaction to
cold water that's why this classic tip
always works number thirteen get more
oxygen provided you're not in the office
it might look a bit weird
you can fight sleepiness by you'll never
believe it breathing so funny you may
reply as if I don't take fifteen breaths
per minute anyway oh but we're talking
about a different kind of breathing one
of the best ways to wake up your brain
is slow oxygenation you can perform the
following exercise to bring more oxygen
to your brain lie down on the floor or
any flat surface put one hand on your
stomach below your ribs put the other
hand on your chest take a deep breath
with your nose and feel your belly
pushing your head be sure to keep your
chest still breathe out through your
mouth
as if you were whistling feel the hand
on your stomach going down push all the
air out perform this exercise five to
ten times and you'll feel more energized
if you're in the office try to slow down
your breathing to ten deep breaths a
minute according to Men's Journal this
process increases your energy level as
well as your cognitive abilities
remember this tip as it's a two-for-one
deal
[Music]
number twelve have ice cream for
breakfast this may be a tough challenge
and perhaps you'll have to push yourself
hard to do this but try eating ice cream
for breakfast even though this tip is a
contradiction to the point we mentioned
before ice cream helps to wake up your
brain it's not about the sugar and
energy boosts but the cold temperature
of the yummy treat just one thing don't
make it a habit okay number 11 do
morning exercises one more incredibly
effective way to wake up completely is
to do morning exercises besides becoming
wide awake you'll also get some good
physical training which will help you
stay healthy and in good shape there's
no need to do a full workout three to
five simple exercises are good enough to
give you an energy boost number ten take
a hot bath with a strong smelling
essential oil a few drops of an
essential oil with a strong smell in a
quick heart bath can work miracles a
perfect choice would be citrus
peppermint rosemary eucalyptus or pine
tree essential oils surprisingly a hot
shower or bath combined with particular
fragrances in the morning is more
beneficial than you thought number nine
go outside as soon as you feel your eyes
closed in the middle of a working day
take a break and go outside if you can't
afford the luxury of a 30-minute stroll
in the park at least open your windows
and breathe in the fresh air if you're
lucky and the temperature outside is
very low
you'll feel nice and refreshed in a few
minutes Robert Thayer PhD a professor at
California State University Long Beach
conducted research to find out whether
people felt more energized after having
a 10-minute walk or eating a candy bar
the candy bar indeed provided an energy
boost but it was short-lived after some
time participants felt even less
energetic than before eating the candy
as for a 10-minute walk it energized
people for a minimum of two hours
the reason is the oxygen that is pumped
through your brain muscles and veins
during the process of walking number
eight make a plan for the day to stay
strong and not let sleep conquer you
make a plan for the day
oh we know that old trick nope simply
writing it down won't work you also need
to follow the plan strictly by writing
down all of the important things you
have to do you don't overwhelm your
brain with excessive information now it
can concentrate on fulfilling the tasks
instead of just memorizing them number
seven eat less white sugar as we've
already mentioned a spike in blood sugar
can cause you to feel tired well perhaps
not immediately at first you'll feel a
boost of energy which will make you jump
around like that squirrel from Ice Age
but after just half an hour your energy
level will drop leaving you completely
exhausted so if you want to eat
something sweet
choose fruit as it's a healthy
alternative to white sugar number six
have more light around you light is a
crucial element in your plan to not fall
asleep at your desk if the room in which
you're sitting has enough light this
stimulates both your mind and your body
as a result you feel alert energized and
awake conversely when you're sitting in
the dark it's only natural that you'll
feel even sleepier
[Music]
number five take a 20-minute nap in the
middle of the day not everyone can
afford the luxury of a day nap
however if you are lucky enough to have
this option be sure to use it
20 minutes won't restore your energy
completely but a quick nap will be just
enough to reload house and tea Tsai
Byrne PhD a fellow at the Stanford
University sleep medicine Center in
Redwood City says that if you can't nap
at least sit quietly with your eyes
closed for about ten minutes this will
help you feel rested number four chew
some gum a study published in the
British Journal of Psychology proved
that people who chewed gum for 15
minutes were more alert and awake than
those who didn't chew any gum it turns
out that when you stimulate your facial
muscles by chewing the blood flow to
your head increases and this makes you
wake up number 3 laugh sincere laughter
helps you to relax and forget about your
problems active calm declared laughing
to be a natural stimulant for both your
brain and your body but you first need
to stimulate yourself to provoke
laughter does this resemble some vicious
circle or is it just me anyway if your
boss catches you reading funny anecdotes
or watching amusing videos just say that
your recharging your batteries number
two touch your palate with your tongue
this method of shooing away sleepiness
is simple and unexpected touch your
palate with your tongue
ticklish feeling will wake up your brain
immediately
number one change your socks this is
probably the strangest tip however if
you change your socks in the middle of
the day you'll feel much more energized
that's the belief of Greg go co-author
of 10001 ways to live large in a small
budget we've tested this method
ourselves and it works don't mind your
colleagues give it a try if you have
ever felt sleepy during a working day
press the like button be honest and if
you've ever used a method to stay awake
that was different to the ones we
mentioned write about it in the comments
below don't forget to subscribe to our
channel and turn on notifications to
stay with us on the bright side of life
[Music]
you